Changelog 147 (#120)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2021-05-17-changelog-147.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #147"
date: 2021-05-17 12:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* [#7140] Enable [new name resolution engine](https://blog.jetbrains.com/clion/2020/12/intellij-rust-updates-for-2020-3/#new-resolve) by default

> * [#6456] Add WSL support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#6456] Add [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/how-to-use-wsl-development-environment-in-product.html) support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)
```

> * [#6456] Add WSL support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)

Reviewer 2: Let's also add a note that if there are both local Windows and WSL toolchains, the local one will be selected automatically. But it's possible to specify path via `\\wsl$` paths manually for now. And it will be improved in the future

> * [#6456] Add WSL support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#6456] Add initial WSL support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)
```

> * [#6456] Add WSL support. To use it, enable `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features)

Reviewer 2: Also, don't forget to mention that support is available only since 2021.1 IDE versions

* [#7102], [#7165] Annotate unknown cfg attributes and provide a quick-fix. This corresponds to the [E0537](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error-index.html#E0537) compiler error. (by [@Kobzol])

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-147/unknown_cfg_predicate" w="700px" %}

> * [#6832] Suggest target triples in command for Cargo run configuration and run anything dialog. Suggest installing the target if it is not yet installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#6832] Complete target triples in [Cargo run configuration](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/cargo-command-configuration.html#cargo-command-config) and [`Run Anything`](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/cargo-command-configuration.html#run-command). Suggest installing the target if it is not yet installed
```

    <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-147/suggest_target_triple.png" alt="Target triple completion in cargo run configuration" width="700px"/>

> * [#7098] Support basic resolve of macros 2.0 (`pub macro name() { ... }`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7098] Support basic name resolution of [macros 2.0](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1584-macros.html) (`pub macro name() { ... }`)
```

## Performance Improvements

> * [#7181] Slightly optimize cargo refresh when using new name resolution engine

Reviewer 2: "cargo refresh" is a more internal term. Let's rephrase it somehow. You can use "project model update" term or something similat

## Fixes

> * [#7174] Cancel external linter (cargo check) immediately when some file is changed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#7174] Cancel [external linter](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-analysis.html#call-external-linter) process immediately when some file is changed. Previously, in some cases, the process might hangs
```

* New name resolution fixes:

    * [#7184] Resolve procedural macros through `#[macro_use]` on extern crates

>     * [#7167] Fix exception when removing crate from workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [#7167] Fix exception when removing a crate from the workspace
```

>     * [#7152] Fix changing crate name

Reviewer 2: Let's write more user-friendly description here

>     * [#7152] Fix changing crate name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [#7152] Fix unexpected name resolution after changing a crate name
```

* [#7178] Take into account enum's lifetimes in `Needless Lifetimes` inspection

> * [#7063] Now `Can't find crate` annotation can be suppressed, highlights only unknown identifier and highlighting style is `unknown symbol` instead of general `error`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7063] Now `Can't find crate` annotation highlights only unknown identifiers and can be [suppressed](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/disabling-and-enabling-inspections.html#suppress-in-editor). Also, its highlighting style was changed to `unknown symbol` (instead of `error`)
```
[minor] maybe rephrase it to something like this, in order to improve readability

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #147"

> date: 2021-05-17 12:00:00 +0300

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2021-05-18 12:00:00 +0300
```

## New Features

* [#7140] Enable [new name resolution engine](https://blog.jetbrains.com/clion/2020/12/intellij-rust-updates-for-2020-3/#new-resolve) by default. Our new algorithm uses the fixed-point iteration approach and aims to provide better support for complex glob imports (`use foo::*`) and re-exports (`use foo as bar`). Here is list of improvements offered by new engine:

    * Properly support [textual scoping](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/macros-by-example.html#textual-scope) when resolving macros
    * Resolve of multi-segment macro paths and macro calls inside files included by `include!`
    * Resolve of [macros 2.0](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1584-macros.md)
    * Support file-level `#![macro_use]` and `cfg` attributes
    * Find all possible `impl` blocks for a type alias. Previously, for performance reasons, they were processed only when the number of aliases for the corresponding type didn’t exceed 10. Now the crates that heavily use type aliases, such as [nalgebra](https://crates.io/crates/nalgebra) or [winapi](https://crates.io/crates/winapi), can be resolved properly

>   Note that the new algorithm works for top-level items only, so local variables and type inference functionality won’t be affected. If you run into an issue with the new engine, you can switch it back to the old one in the plugin settings `Settings | Languages & Frameworks | Rust | Use new name resolution engine`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Note that the new algorithm works for top-level items only, so local variables and type inference functionality won’t be affected. If you run into an issue with the new engine, you can switch it back to the old one via `Use new name resolution engine` option in `Settings | Languages & Frameworks | Rust` settings
```

> * [#6456] Add initial [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/how-to-use-wsl-development-environment-in-product.html) support. It is available since 2021.1, and can be enabled using `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features). Note that if there are both local Windows and WSL toolchains, the local one will be selected automatically. You can manually specify `\\wsl$` paths in `Settings | Languages & Frameworks | Rust` to use WSL toolchain, and we plan to improve it in the future

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [#6456] Add initial [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/how-to-use-wsl-development-environment-in-product.html) support. It is available since 2021.1, and can be enabled using `org.rust.wsl` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features). Note that if there are both local Windows and WSL toolchains, the local one will be selected automatically. You can manually specify desired WSL toolchain location with `\\wsl$` path in `Settings | Languages & Frameworks | Rust` settings. We plan to improve toolchain selection in the future
```
